---
layout: post
category: blog
title: "5 hours a day"
tag : career
published: true
author: Lee Elenbaas
---
# New job

Started a new job yesterday. I am back in the position of learning from scratch.

This new company has a strong emphasis on the organizational culture:

* How to write the code
* How to get a task
* How to work on it
* How to report it
* How to email
* How to communicate

And more...

I can tell from the tools and the code base that the company has roots deep into the C/C++ Eco system, despite the work itself being in JavaScript. This means different tools and mindset then in most other JavaScript places I encountered.

Something I'll have to get used too.

# Commute time

But the mind boggling thing to me is the commute time.

2.5 hours for each direction. 5 hours a day. Half a day goes for every workday.

Yes I know it before I took the job, but knowing is not the same as feeling.
Yesterday was the first day in a long while where I haven't seen any of my kids awake at all. I left before they woke up, and came back after they already fall asleep.
Why this morning I left only after I saw them leaving for their day.

## Transportation

I rolled out a car since for it will be Russian Roulette with almost fully loaded gun.

I know I will fall asleep on the wheel. The only questions are when it will happen, and how badly I'll be hurt.

This leaves public transportation, that is less then friendly.

## Current rout

* Home to bus station - same as with my previous work, mostly by car when my wife drop off the kids.

* Bus to the train station - same as with the previous work. Sadly the bus usually arrive just as the train leaves so I have to wait for the next one.

* Train to a more central station,where I'll wait for the train that will get me to work

* Train to train station closest to work

* bus or shuttle to work

And the ride home is the same in reverse.

I just realized I forgot to measure the times for each segment. I'll do it in the next few days and report it.

# Mitigations

There are mitigating factors.

I can start the work on the train. Most days there is enough space to work. I have the laptop with everything I need on it. I just need to organize it, something I plan to do this week.

This should give about 90 min of offline work in each direction.

# Future

I plan to improve the first and last parts by moving back to the bike.

A new train station is planned closer to my work that will eliminate one step from this route.

The real mitigator is, working from home.
I do not plan on working totally from home, history thought me thus is problematic for me, but a few days a week will be great.  

# Rewrite

I am rewriting this post, more annoyed then I was when I first wrote it, since I lost it over network issue along the way.
Mobile is not a good enough tool, yet.
