---
layout: post
title: "F0X"
category: blog
author: Lee Elenbaas
date: "2016-07-18 22:09:00 +0300"
published: true
---

I lost my 1+1 to not being gentle enough with it.
I dumped it in the toilet, it fell countless of times, but i think the end came when i closed the car door on it. It was all accidental, but i doubt any other phone would have survived any better.
In the end it lasted for a year.

And after only one year of a relatively expensive phone, i wend back to the decision that caused me to buy ZTE Blade III as a phone i used before. I decided not to invest a lot of money on a phone that will probably not last another year.

In the search for a new phone, along with my desire to know all, and explore strange things. I eventually decided on LG F0X.

The most decent spec FireFox OS phone i  could find. Price was hald that of the ZTE u sed in the past, and from that a large chunk was the delivery charges.

It arrived yesterday, and the experiement started.

## Physical

In terms of dimentions it is a 4" phone. Not as large as the 5", but large enough to have a usable screen.

Weight is rather small, lighter then the Sony Experia Z that i used as temp phone until it arrived.

The buttons are not extending outside the box enough for my taste, and the volume buttons could have been wider.

## Camera

Decent enough for its spec, with easy to use UI.
I have yet to test it under different lighting conditions, but i am not holding my breath.

## Battery

This is the most painful topic.
It takes forever to charge, and with my wifi use, it loses it very fast.

## OS

This is the real question. How is FireFox OS compared to the other mobile OS out there.

The short version - FireFox OS feel is like Android 2. It gets the job done, but leave a lot to be desired.

As a smartphone it can do all the basic things:

- Phone conversations, SMS & Contacts
- Email, browsing
- App market

All are present and accounted for, but all lack compared to modern Android & iOS

## Bottom line

The phone is usable, but the feeling right now is that it will not be easy to tweak it for my taste, and usage.

I'll give it more time for now.
